Principles of Universal Design

Equitable Use: We have implemented two modes to our Blackjack simulator, one which allows players to get a sense of 
when they should hit and stand with an assisting probabilities of winning being displayed, and a game mode that just 
lets players play without aid, catering to new players who want to learn and more experienced players who wish to gauge 
their ability to dictate whether they have a winning hand.

Flexibility in Use: We do not have a large range of playable modes to accommodate for many individual preferences. 
We could implement different casino games with the same intuition of teaching how to play with statistical assistance
to allow players to choose from more than just Blackjack.

Simple and Intuitive Use: In any given moment while playing our program the user has only two options: hit and stand. 
For those who may not know how a game of Blackjack runs we have a use case that explains the goal of Blackjack along 
with how to play.

Perceptible Information: We have tried our best for our colour choices for background, text, and buttons to be easily 
read by most players. We could implement saturation/recolour settings to accommodate those who may be colour blind or 
with poor vision to better customize their experience.

Tolerance for Error: We do not have many barriers to stop errors in our program. The one that we do have is an option 
to return to the main menu when playing a game. We could implement a use case whose purpose is to allow the player to 
undo their previous move in case of errors.

Low Physical Effort: Our program can be played with very little fatigue from the user, from the knowledge barrier of 
playing Blackjack or playing our actual program. We have instructions on how to play Blackjack and our buttons used to 
play the game are single-word labelled giving a direct explanation of what a button should do. There is also very 
little need for quick mouse movements as there are no time constraints to our program, so there should be little to no
physical exacerbation.

Size and Space: This principle does not apply to a program like ours since there is no external barriers set by us 
permitting access through size and space. The program being a computer application encourages its users to choose their
own environment, on their own personal computer.

Expected Consumers:

We would predominantly market our product towards anyone interested in going to casinos (for those with experience and
for those who have never played blackjack ever). Specifically we would market the ability to practice and gain 
experience playing blackjack in a zero risk environment to veterans, and an introductory experience to those who might 
be going to a casino for their first time and are confused how Blackjack plays. Our product would be accessed with the 
specific end-goal of having our users be more comfortable with the game and how to play rather than promoting a software
that teaches people to count cards, as the programs goal is not to have its users memorize winning card patterns but 
build familiarity with knowing when it is safe to continue hitting. 

Less Likely Demographics:

There should be a larger age disparity as our product is not to be marketed towards minors (as even though there is no 
monetary transaction in our program it promotes gambling). Also, as previously mentioned, with no customizability of 
display colours/saturations or languages, our program is mostly accessible to those without severe vision impairments 
and English speakers.
